HTTP is connectionless: The HTTP client, i.e., a browser initiates an HTTP request and after a request is made, the client disconnects 
from the server and waits for a response. The server processes the request and re-establishes the connection with the client to send a response back.

HTTP is media independent: It means, any type of data can be sent by HTTP as long as both the client and the server know how to handle 
the data content. It is required for the client as well as the server to specify the content type using appropriate MIME-type.

HTTP is stateless: As mentioned above, HTTP is connectionless and it is a direct result of HTTP being a stateless protocol. The server 
and client are aware of each other only during a current request. Afterwards, both of them forget about each other. Due to this nature 
of the protocol, neither the client nor the browser can retain information between different requests across the web pages.


What is the purpose of HTTP?
HTTP was invented alongside HTML to create the first interactive, text-based web browser: the original World Wide Web. 
Today, the protocol remains one of the primary means of using the Internet.
How does HTTP work?
As a request-response protocol, HTTP gives users a way to interact with web resources such as HTML files by transmitting 
hypertext messages between clients and servers. HTTP clients generally use Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connections to communicate with servers.

HTTP utilizes specific request methods in order to perform various tasks:

GET requests a specific resource in its entirety
HEAD requests a specific resource without the body content
POST adds content, messages, or data to a new page under an existing web resource
PUT directly modifies an existing web resource or creates a new URI if need be
DELETE gets rid of a specified resource
TRACE shows users any changes or additions made to a web resource
OPTIONS shows users which HTTP methods are available for a specific URL
CONNECT converts the request connection to a transparent TCP/IP tunnel
PATCH partially modifies a web resource

NOTE:
All HTTP servers use the GET and HEAD methods, but not all support the rest of these request methods.